Imagine a request over the web where you have a client browser communicating to a server process. To maintain state over the stateless http protocol 
the browser will send typically send a session identifier to the server on each request. For each request the server will be like "ah, its this guy".
State information can then be looked up in server side memory or in a database based on this session id.

In a purely stateless environment you wouldn't need this session id. Each request would contain all the information the server would need to process. But many applications need to maintain state 
to keep track of whether or not a session is authenticated to view certain content or to keep track of what a user is doing. You wouldn't want to send user credentials over the wire for each request.
Session is stored in Server Memory
Cookie is stored in Client Memory
A cookie has a name and a value, and other attribute such as domain and path, expiration date, version number, and comments.  Domain and path specifies which server (and path) to return the cookie.
  Cookie could be persistent (with a future expiration date) or last only for that
 particular browser’s session (i.e., removed when you close the browser).  A web browser is only required to accept up to 20 cookies per server and 300 cookies in total.  Each cookie is limited to 4 KB.
 "Set-Cookie" Response Header
A cookie is created when a client visits a site for the first time. A server-side program sends a response message containing a "Set-Cookie" response header. The header contains a name/value pair of 
the cookie plus some additional information.
Set-Cookie: cookie-name=cookie-value; expires=date; path=path-name; domain=domain-name; secure
Session state
Session state is a feature in ASP.NET Core that you can use to save and store user data while the user browses your web app. Consisting of a dictionary or hash table on the server, session state
 persists data across requests from a browser. The session data is backed by a cache.

ASP.NET Core maintains session state by giving the client a cookie that contains the session ID, which is sent to the server with each request. The server uses the session ID to fetch the session data.
 Because the session cookie is specific to the browser, you cannot share sessions 
across browsers. Session cookies are deleted only when the browser session ends. If a cookie is received for an expired session, a new session that uses the same session cookie is created.

The server retains a session for a limited time after the last request. Either set the session timeout or use the default value of 20 minutes. Session state is ideal for storing user data that's
 specific to a particular session but doesn't need to be persisted permanently. Data is deleted from the backing store either when calling Session.Clear or when the session expires in the data store.
 The server doesn't know when the browser is closed or when the session cookie is deleted.
 Cookies are key/value pairs used by websites to store state informations on the browser.
 Browser request example:

GET /index.html HTTP/1.1
Host: www.example.com
Example answer from the server:

HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Content-type: text/html
Set-Cookie: foo=10
Set-Cookie: bar=20; Expires=Fri, 30 Sep 2011 11:48:00 GMT
... rest  of the response
Here two cookies foo=10 and bar=20 are stored on the browser. The second one will expire on 30 September. In each subsequent request the browser will send the cookies back to the server.

GET /spec.html HTTP/1.1
Host: www.example.com
Cookie: foo=10; bar=20
Accept: */*
Creating cookies
When receiving an HTTP request, a server can send a Set-Cookie header with the response. The cookie is usually stored by the browser, and then the cookie is sent with requests made to the same server inside a Cookie HTTP header. An expiration date or duration can be specified, after which the cookie is no longer sent. Additionally, restrictions to a specific domain and path can be set, limiting where the cookie is sent.

The Set-Cookie and Cookie headers
The Set-Cookie HTTP response header sends cookies from the server to the user agent. A simple cookie is set like this:

Set-Cookie: <cookie-name>=<cookie-value>
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Content-type: text/html
Set-Cookie: yummy_cookie=choco
Set-Cookie: tasty_cookie=strawberry

[page content]
Now, with every new request to the server, the browser will send back all previously stored cookies to the server using the Cookie header.

GET /sample_page.html HTTP/1.1
Host: www.example.org
Cookie: yummy_cookie=choco; tasty_cookie=strawberry